Revenge of the Rogue - Walkthrough
==================================

**Warning - spoilers ahead**

Act One
-------

1. The Pine Forest

Both leaders can recruit very few unit types, this makes this opening
battle quite unique.
   
There are two approaches here. The first is a quick raid on the enemy
leader using your characters and thieves.

The other approach is to just wait it out. None of the enemy units can
survive waves of your ruffians. Surrounding shamans with ruffians and
attacking them one by one will stop them forming invincible
self-healing infantry squares.

Don't forget that it always pays to get your leader some experience,
hardening him up will prevent problems later if an enemy slips through
your lines or if he encounters something unexpected down the mines.

2. A different meeting

If you were lucky enough to inherit a rider from the last scenario,
then use it to scoop up the villages.

On easy, you outnumber the enemy, so just walk up and defeat the
leader. On medium, you might want to setup a defence around the bridge
and the village that is next to it. If things do not go well, you can
easily fall back to home camp.

One way or another, eventually the enemy attack runs out of
steam. Goblins are not very strong so eventually you will thin them
down and outnumber the enemy.

3. A Forest Clearing

Story only level, no enemies.

4. Back in town

The introductory part of the campaign ends with the arrival of the
main hero, the Master Chief, oops I mean the dwarves. Levelled up
fighters and thunderers are pretty invincible so get started now.
   
The orcs start lazy and unprepared but will soon put themselves in
order.

Act Two
-------

5. Mine Entrance

The second act begins with a straight forward brawl, and the last in
the open before the more cramped conditions to come. Don't forget to
level up your healers and other non-dwarf units or they won't be much
use in the underground corridors.

6. Welcome Home

Now we are finally inside the Orc-infested former Dwarven
Kingdom. This is the first level where the Orcs have Assassins so
watch out for their poison.

7. Turn Right

Non-dwarf units may have mobility problems here, so don't recruit many
or you will have already shot the enemy to pieces before they arrive.

8. The Armoury

More target practice. Those grunts are no match for the thunderers. 

9. The Galley

Sitting on a glyph is a waste of a high level unit, so consider
recruiting a couple of cheaper dwarves for this purpose. To open a
standard door, just move a unit next to it.

Keep half an eye on the turn counter and don't leave the leader Edwin
sitting at home camp for too long, you need to get him to the
signpost.

10. Double Down

Don't throw the loyal troops you just gained away for nothing, they
will be very useful later, use them as finishers, pest control or hold
them back completely. One castle of dwarves should be enough to take
out the enemy here, get Edwin running as there is a turn limit.

Depending on which signpost you pick, you go to level 11 or 12.

11. Lava pits

If you forgot to give your leader some experience then this level may
cause a problem. He will certainly have experience after this level.

Use a wall to limit your exposure and hope for some good luck. Edwin
has a choice of attacks and selecting carefully will help immensely.

If you really cannot beat this level, consider going back to level 10
and choosing the other route.

12. Eastern Cavern

This is the scenic option for anyone who wants extra underground mine
action. Plenty of time and enemies to level up the perfect army.

13. Rising Up

This level does have a slightly stingy turn limit, so watch out and
move along quickly.

The next level in the campaign is 15, however, if you manage to get
Edwin to Valda's quarters and she considers you worthy enough she may
in the dialogue offer you the choice.

If you choose to join up with Valda then you go to level 14, staying
with Sini and your friends takes you to level 15.

Valda always has guards so I hope you kept some Ulfserkers. 

14. The Battle for Wesnoth

If you chose to join Valda then the campaign ends with an attack on
Weldyn, the capital city of Wesnoth.

The classic mainline campaign Heir to the Throne ends with Konrad and
Li'sar bravely defending Weldyn from an army of undead and Orcs. In
this scenario, we get to do the reverse, we get to lead the horde
against the city. However, the forces of Weldyn will not yield
lightly.

Reinforcements arrive on turns 10 and 20. You not only need to survive
until then but you also should scoop up some villages so that you can
recruit extra units.

One approach is to split your force into three, one third goes north
through the forest to take out the eastern leader, one third goes west
to take out the southern leader and the last third meets the oncoming
attack coming out of the city.

The force that takes out the eastern leader should include one or
several units with a high level of mobility in the forest such as a
bat or a spider.

On this level, Edwin has a special skill where if he defeats a unit,
he can make another attack. Valda also uses her magic, which means if
Valda or Edwin are defeated, they get a second chance.

Act Three
---------

15. Sky is the Limit

A bit of a break from the grey tunnels.

The simplest approach is to recruit one castle of troops then make
Edwin run without looking back. Use everyone else to distract and
block the enemy's access to Edwin. He should be able to run to the end
in 6 turns, well within the time limit.

16. Deeper

On this level the clock is the biggest enemy so don't spend more than
a few turns recruiting. If you managed to keep any of the long range
units from the last scenario then keep them for the final. It is a
narrow corridor with fast moving enemies so don't leave your healers
exposed.

17. The Wonder of it all

In this scenario you have to defeat a specific enemy unit.
    
You have two approaches here.

If you can get the cart to the end of the line in the kitchen at the
far west of the map, you can get a shortcut to the target. Sending a
few cheap and expendable units north will help distract the enemy and
prevent them attacking you from behind so quickly.
    
The cart is defenceless and slow, so the alternative approach is to
just ignore it and go north to fight and farm your way through.

18. The Great Search

The exact route through the maze is randomly generated at the start of
the scenario. Sending scouts, or other fast units, in all directions
is the easiest way to find the correct route to the prisoner Kalliope.

It is worth trying to keep Sini alive as Kalliope can tell Sini when
one of your units opens a door nearby.

Valda's experiments and other monsters are mostly contained, that is
until you start disturbing them!

You have 100 turns, this should be a very generous amount of time to
farm and fight on your way around, but keep one eye on the turn number
and get a move on if you have used up half of the turns and have still
not found the way to the end.

Act Four
--------

19. Dambusters

A lighter scenario between the previous long search and the end
battle.

You can launch a full frontal assault against the enemy through the
central reservoir. Alternatively, sending a single mounted unit into
the middle will confuse the enemy long enough so you can catch the
enemy off guard by sending secretive hunters, or fast mounted units,
up the side corridors.

20. Back in Town. Again.

You re-conquered your home town in level 4, but can you keep it?

Edwin took all the best troops and after a long campaign in the
underground Dwarven kingdom, he now has many loyal followers.

However, Vikki, who was left in charge of the town, is not so lucky,
despite hiring every mercenary she can find, she is struggling to
contain Valda's siege.

The first order of business is to break the siege and put Edwin into
the central castle keep.

Edwin starts with many loyal units, send a couple of riders or scouts
east and south to scoop up villages.

Anything you recruit or recall you have to move, so it is best to
recruit no more than one castle full and just spend the rest of your
money when you arrive.

Once you do arrive, you can recall and recruit right up against the
invaders, so if you have a fantastic recall list of level 3 veterans
then the enemy will not survive for very long.

Finally, march east and defeat the leaders. You only have to stop
Valda, but defeating the other leaders is not much work and does stop
them recruiting more units.

Between turn 10 and turn 60, occasionally some bonus units will show
up to reinforce you or Valda, however you can probably clear out the
castle by about turn 10 and defeat Valda by about turn 15.
